Content type: arthur_blog
Source: https://www.arthur.ai/blog/arthur-earns-placements-on-built-ins-2023-best-places-to-work-list
 Arthur Earns Placements on Built In’s 2023 Best Places to Work List
Company UpdatesArthur Earns Placements on Built In’s 2023 Best Places to Work ListBy:Arthur TeamJanuary 11, 2023Today, Built In announced that Arthur was honored in its Best Places to Work Awards for the second year in a row. Specifically, Arthur earned a place on New York City Best Startups to Work For, New York City Best Places to Work, and U.S. Best Startups to Work For. The annual awards program includes companies of all sizes, from startups to those in the enterprise, and honors both remote-first employers as well as companies in large tech markets across the country.“We’re thrilled to be recognized by Built In alongside the top companies in New York City and beyond,” says Adam Wenchel, co-founder and CEO of Arthur. “New York has grown into a world-class enterprise tech ecosystem over the past decade, and we’re proud to be part of the community and call it our home base. I’ve been so impressed by our team’s continued ability to integrate the sentiments at the core of our company mission—make AI work for everyone—into a welcoming and equally mission-driven company culture. We nearly doubled our team in 2022, and we can’t wait to welcome even more Arthurians in 2023!” At Arthur, we are fully committed to not only fulfilling and challenging work that truly makes a difference, but also providing the opportunity to do that work as part of a diverse, creative, and passionate team. We believe our competitive compensation, equitable hiring practices, and comprehensive benefits (including wellness programs, a home office stipend, tuition reimbursement, and more) truly make Arthur an incredible place to work, and it’s exciting to see our company continue to be recognized by Built In. Interested in joining us? Check out our open roles here.“It’s my honor to congratulate this year’s Best Places to Work winners,” says Sheridan Orr, Chief Marketing Officer, Built In. “These exemplary companies understand their people are their most valuable asset, and they’ve stepped up to meet the modern professional’s new expectations, including the desire to work for companies that deliver purpose, growth, and inclusion. These winners set the stage for a human-centered future of work, and we can’t wait to see that future unfold.”  ABOUT BUILT INBuilt In is creating the largest platform for technology professionals globally. Monthly, millions of the industry’s most in-demand professionals visit the site from across the world. They rely on our platform to stay ahead of tech trends and news, learn skills to accelerate their careers and find opportunities at companies whose values they share. Built In also serves 2,000 customers, innovative companies ranging from startups to those in the Fortune 500. By putting their stories in front of our uniquely engaged audience, we help them hire otherwise hard-to-reach tech professionals.ABOUT BUILT IN’S BEST PLACES TO WORK Built In’s esteemed Best Places to Work Awards, now in its fifth year, honor companies across numerous categories: 100 Best Places to Work, 50 Best Startup Places to Work, 100 Best Midsize Places to Work, 100 Best Large Places to Work and Editor’s Choice: 100 Best Hybrid Places to Work. The program honors companies—remote, hybrid and in-office—with the best total rewards packages across the U.S. and in the following tech hubs: Atlanta, Austin, Boston, Chicago, Colorado, Dallas, Houston, Los Angeles, Miami, New York, San Diego, San Francisco, Seattle and Washington D.C. ABOUT ARTHURArthur is the AI performance company. The Arthur platform monitors, measures, and improves machine learning models to deliver better results, working with enterprise teams to accelerate model operations and optimize for accuracy, explainability, and fairness. Arthur's research-led approach to product development drives exclusive capabilities in enterprise scalability, computer vision, NLP, bias mitigation, and other critical areas. Contacts: press@arthur.aiPREVIOUS POSTSHAREnext post
We make AI better for everyone.Sign up for our newsletter to get the latest Arthur news!SubscribeProductShieldBenchScopeChatLLMNLPCVTabularR&DResourcesBlogGAPDocumentationcompanyTeamCareersNewsPress InquiriesARTHUR 2023 © ALL RIGHTS RESERVEDTerms of ServicePrivacy