Content type: arthur_blog
Source: https://www.arthur.ai/blog/arthur-named-a-best-place-to-work-in-2022
 Built In Honors Arthur in Its Esteemed 2022 Best Places To Work Awards
Company UpdatesBuilt In Honors Arthur in Its Esteemed 2022 Best Places To Work AwardsBy:Arthur TeamJanuary 5, 2022Arthur Earns 15th Place on Built In’s List of 50 Best Small Companies in New York City‍For Immediate Release New York, NY // January 5, 2022 — Built In today announced that Arthur is a winner in their 2022 Best Places To Work Awards. Specifically, Arthur earned a place on the 50 Best Small Places to Work in NYC and 50 Best Paying Companies in NYC lists. The annual awards program includes companies of all sizes, from startups to enterprise, and honors both remote-first employers as well as companies in the eight largest tech markets across the U.S.“We’re thrilled to be recognized alongside the best companies in New York,” says Adam Wenchel, Arthur’s Co-Founder & CEO. “I’m constantly inspired by our team’s focus on our mission to make AI work for everyone. We’ve clearly seen and felt the challenges the last two years have presented for people – and so creating a caring culture built on integrity, equity, diversity, and compassion is the best thing we can do for all of us. 2022 will be a big year for us and we are excited to welcome many new voices!” Check out open roles at Arthur here. Built In determines the winners of Best Places to Work based on an algorithm, using company data about compensation, benefits and companywide programming. To reflect the benefits candidates are searching for more frequently on Built In, the program also weighs criteria like remote and flexible work opportunities, programs for DEI and other people-first cultural offerings. “It is my honor to extend congratulations to the 2022 Best Places to Work winners,” says Sheridan Orr, Chief Marketing Officer, Built In. “This year saw a record number of entrants — and the past two years fundamentally changed what tech professionals want from work. These honorees have risen to the challenge, evolving to deliver employee experiences that provide the meaning and purpose today’s tech professionals seek.”‍ABOUT BUILT INBuilt In is creating the largest platform for technology professionals globally. Monthly, more than three million of the industry’s most in-demand professionals visit the site from across the world. They rely on our platform to stay ahead of tech trends and news, develop their careers and find opportunities at companies whose values they share. Built In also serves 1,800 innovative companies of all sizes, ranging from startups to the Fortune 100. By putting their stories in front of our uniquely engaged audience, we help them hire otherwise hard-to-reach tech professionals, locally, nationally or remotely. www.builtin.com  ABOUT BUILT IN’S BEST PLACES TO WORKBuilt In’s esteemed Best Places to Work Awards, now in its fourth year, honor companies across numerous categories: 100 Best Places to Work, 50 Best Small Places to Work, 100 Best Midsize Places to Work, 50 Companies with the Best Benefits and 50 Best Paying Companies, 100 Best Large Companies to Work For, and 100 Best Remote-First Places to Work. ABOUT ARTHURAt Arthur, we are deeply passionate about building technology to make AI work for everyone. Arthur is the AI performance company that delivers on the full potential of equitable AI for enterprise customers through performance monitoring and optimization, explainability, and bias detection. Learn more at www.arthur.ai Contacts:  Tory Marlin, Director of Marketing  tory@arthur.ai  PREVIOUS POSTSHAREnext post
We make AI better for everyone.Sign up for our newsletter to get the latest Arthur news!SubscribeProductShieldBenchScopeChatLLMNLPCVTabularR&DResourcesBlogGAPDocumentationcompanyTeamCareersNewsPress InquiriesARTHUR 2023 © ALL RIGHTS RESERVEDTerms of ServicePrivacy