Content type: arthur_blog
Source: https://www.arthur.ai/blog/arthur-rapidly-growing-amidst-surging-interest-in-model-monitoring-identified-as-a-sample-vendor-in-2021-gartner-r-hype-cycle-tm-for-ai-report
 Arthur—rapidly growing amidst surging interest in model monitoring—identified as a Sample Vendor in 2021 Gartner ® Hype Cycle ™ for AI report
Company UpdatesArthur—rapidly growing amidst surging interest in model monitoring—identified as a Sample Vendor in 2021 Gartner ® Hype Cycle ™ for AI reportBy:Arthur TeamSeptember 15, 2021New York, NY –  Arthur, the leading machine learning (ML) monitoring platform, is identified as a Sample Vendor for the AI Governance category. Gartner released its annual “Hype Cycle for Artificial Intelligence 2021” report, highlighting the growing importance of AI governance practices in AI-enabled companies as it states, “Data and analytics leaders must leverage this research to successfully navigate AI-specific innovations that are in various phases of maturation, adoption and hype.” [1]“With AI now delivering value in practical enterprise application, data and analytics leaders see that scaling AI without governance is dangerous. When each AI output is replicated millions of times, they ask how to balance the business value promised by AI against the need for appropriate oversight, risk management, and investment decisions.”As digital transformation continues to be a driving force in operations across industries, Gartner highlights the necessity to invest in technology to support AI governance, Responsible AI, and ModelOps within an organization. The Gartner report states: “With AI now delivering value in practical enterprise application, data and analytics leaders see that scaling AI without governance is dangerous. When each AI output is replicated millions of times, they ask how to balance the business value promised by AI against the need for appropriate oversight, risk management, and investment decisions.” [1]“Over the past three years, we’ve successfully enabled our customers to put in place robust AI monitoring and governance at companies of all sizes. We believe that this Gartner recognition of the importance of AI governance is further proof of its foundational importance in the enterprise. Our team is uniquely positioned to help customers put in place this governance and maximize their AI investments.”Arthur believes the report underpins the transformative impact that AI has on all enterprises. As a result, the need for explainable AI and fairness is paramount. “As enterprises become AI-enabled, the performance of their models drives the performance of their business. We are seeing an increased focus on AI governance all the way up to the board level,” said Adam Wenchel, Founder and CEO of Arthur. "Over the past three years, we’ve successfully enabled our customers to put in place robust AI monitoring and governance at companies of all sizes. We believe that this Gartner recognition of the importance of AI governance is further proof of its foundational importance in the enterprise. Our team is uniquely positioned to help customers put in place this governance and maximize their AI investments.”Since its inception in 2018, Arthur has enabled customers like Humana, Zesty.ai, and Truebill to accelerate their business transformation through AI. Customers use Arthur to monitor their ML models, mitigate, analyze and mitigate unwanted biases, and explain how the models are making decisions.The platform continues to innovate—Arthur has been the first to market in enabling the adoption of computer vision (CV) and natural language processing (NLP) models. In April, it was named one of CB Insight’s AI 100 list, recognizing promising private AI companies globally for the second consecutive year. In June, it was named a Gartner ‘Cool Vendor’ in AI Governance and Responsible AI [2].If you’re a Gartner client, you can access the full report here: Hype Cycle for Artificial Intelligence 2021Learn more about Arthur at arthur.ai/product. To schedule a demo of Arthur, please contact info@arthur.ai.[1] Gartner, “Hype Cycle for Artificial Intelligence, 2021”, Shubhangi Vashisth, Svetlana Sicular, 29 July 2021
[2] Gartner, “Cool Vendors ™ in AI Governance and Responsible AI”, Svetlana Sicular, Moutusi Sau, et al, 10 June 2021
Required Disclaimer: GARTNER, COOL VENDORS and HYPE CYCLE are a registered trademark and service mark of Gartner, Inc. and/or its affiliates in the U.S. and internationally and are used herein with permission. Gartner does not endorse any vendor, product or service depicted in its research publications, and does not advise technology users to select only those vendors with the highest ratings or other designation. Gartner research publications consist of the opinions of Gartner's research organization and should not be construed as statements of fact. Gartner disclaims all warranties, expressed or implied, with respect to this research, including any warranties of merchantability or fitness for a particular purpose.NOTE: Additional information may be included in the press release, but must be in compliance with the Gartner Copyright and Quote Policy: http://www.gartner.com/technology/about/policies/copyright.jsp  Industry-general excerpts from the report are permitted (e.g., evaluation criteria);No company-specific excerpts permitted as they may appear endorsing;Vendor company information may be included provided it is clearly differentiated from the Gartner report.PREVIOUS POSTSHAREnext post
We make AI better for everyone.Sign up for our newsletter to get the latest Arthur news!SubscribeProductShieldBenchScopeChatLLMNLPCVTabularR&DResourcesBlogGAPDocumentationcompanyTeamCareersNewsPress InquiriesARTHUR 2023 © ALL RIGHTS RESERVEDTerms of ServicePrivacy