Content type: arthur_scope_docs
Source: https://docs.arthur.ai/docs/monitoring-best-practices
 Monitoring Best Practices
Monitoring Best PracticesSuggest EditsThe Arthur Scope product is used to monitor machine learning models. It runs on Kubernetes and is able to scale on-demand. There are several components that should be monitored so the platform stays healthy.
Some recommended best practices for monitoring the various Scope components are as follows:
Kubernetes
Pods
CPU/Memory utilization
Pods are the smallest building blocks in Kubernetes. It's always advised to ensure pods have sufficient resources(CPU and Memory) available for them to run.
Number of Restarts
Pods getting restarted frequently is a sign of an buggy code or bad configuration.
Pods in Pending/Unknown/Unavailable/CLBO state
Pods not in a Ready state is a sign of hardware degradation or connectivity failures to external systems.
Persistent Volumes
IOPS
Ensure the storage backing Persistent Volumes have enough throughput provisioned and there is no throttling being experienced.
Available Disk Space
Ensure attached Persistent Volumes have enough disk space.
VolumeAttachment Errors
Ensure there are no VolumeAttachment errors observed in Persistent Volumes. This is particularly critical in multi-AZ deployments.
Nodes
Sufficient nodes in each AZ
Ensure there are required number of **nodes per AZ for each deployment.
Max nodes per cluster
Monitoring the total number of nodes a cluster is scaled to ensures performance and costs are in optimal.
Datastores
Meta Database(External)
Disk Space
Ensure there is enough disk space for the database.
IOPS
Monitor for any throttling of performance for the database disk and adjust IOPS accordingly.
CPU
Monitor for any throttling of performance for the database cpu and adjust it accordingly.
OLAP Database
Replication Lag
The OLAP database is usually deployed in a 3 node setup, which are synced via replication. A lag happens when data is not consistent across all nodes.
Delayed/Rejected Inserts
This usually happens when a large number of INSERTS are sent too quickly. This can lead to data loss or corruption.
ZooKeeper Exceptions
These should generally not happen and is sometimes an indication of bad hardware.
Messaging Middleware
Kafka
Consumer Lag
Producers write data and Consumers read data from the messaging middleware. If consumers are not able to keep up with the producers, it will lead to a lag which can mean poor performance for the platform.
Under Replicated partitions
Follower replicas get data from Leader replicas using replication. Due to resource exhaustion or Leader failure, it is possible the Follower replicas don’t keep up with the Leader replicas.
Kafka Connect
Connector failures
These failures mean data is not being written to data stores, which can lead to data loss.
Task failures
These failures mean data is not matching the configurations, which can lead to data loss/corruption.
ZooKeeper
Outstanding Requests
This is the number of requests waiting to be processed by ZooKeeper.
Workflow Scheduler
Failed Steps
This usually implies a bad configuration or being unable to communicate with external systems.
Failed Workflows
Failed Steps or bad configurations could lead to failed workflows.
Queued Workflows
Workflows being queued could mean there is a lack of resources on the cluster.
Microservices
Rate of 4XX/5XX HTTP response status
Bad HTTP status codes could happen due to various reasons (bugs, pod restarts, invalid creds, access etc.).
Response times
Elevated response times can happen due to various reasons (bugs, pod restarts etc.).
Updated about 2 months ago Table of Contents
Kubernetes
Datastores
Messaging Middleware
Workflow Scheduler
Microservices